[Music]
every now and then you get stuck in
traffic so what do you do you stare
blankly at your windshield right and you
probably noticed the little black dots
around the edges ever wondered what
those are for
and what about the black lines going
across the back window well here's your
answer the dots come from the black band
that goes around the window that band is
called the frit now it's nothing to frit
about it's the ceramic paint that
protects the sealant holding your
windshield in place without the frit the
sun's rays would eventually ruin that
adhesive and the windshield would just
pop out also that glue doesn't look too
good on the window so the frit is there
to cover it up as for the black dots
themselves first they serve an aesthetic
function they make a nice gradient
transition from the black fret to the
clear window this gradient is also a
safety feature
normally the black dots are arranged in
a halftone pattern they get smaller and
more spaced out the further they get
from the edge of the windshield this way
the transition from black to clear is
almost unnoticeable for your eyes and
that's important since you don't need
any distractions while driving their
second purpose is temperature control to
give the windshield its bent shape it's
heated up in an oven the black part
naturally gets warm or faster than the
clear part so the black dots are there
to even out the heat and minimize
optical distortion without them the
windshield would deform those black dots
above the rear-view mirror have another
important function they help protect
your eyes from the Sun while you're
driving you can put both the driver and
passenger visors down but there will
still be a gap between them where the
rear-view mirror hangs hence the
boat-shaped cluster of black dots there
black dots aren't the only part of your
car that might have you wondering what
on earth is that for let's reveal some
more secrets stick around till the end
of the helpful bonus tip and if I miss
anything on this list
leave your car questions or ideas
in the comments the a s lie since you're
looking at your windshield did you
notice that little line with an arrow
pointing down and a s one written on it
it's the approved safety code for the
glass a s one means the glass should let
in no less than 75% of the line the line
and arrow mean from this point and
downward so you can tint
anything above it but nothing below it
this code is strictly for windshields if
you look at your side windows you'll
notice a little a s two symbol that
means the glass must let in at least 70%
of the light
if you see a s 3 it's rare and it means
the light transmittance can be below 70
percent so you can tint that window
quite a bit if you want lines on the
rear window if you live in a part of the
world with seasonal weather you must be
familiar with snow and ice there every
drivers worst nightmare during the
winter months fortunately you have a
helper with you on your scraping and
de-icing mission the thin black lines on
your back window cars vary from model to
model but most have this feature as part
of the defrosting system small currents
run through those lines to heat the
glass a bit and melt the snow and ice or
get rid of any foggy condensation by the
way your front windshield also needs
protection from snow ice and fog you
obviously can't have black lines
blocking your view so that's why there
are air vents on the dashboard to blast
it with hot air the snowflake light have
you ever noticed a little snowflake
light up on your dashboard this is the
frost or freeze warning and it lights up
automatically to inform you that the
temperature outside has dropped so much
that the roads are likely to freeze when
the snowflake is yellow the temperature
is getting close to freezing probably
around 40 degrees when it's red it's at
or below freezing 32 degrees don't
confuse this snowflake with a winter
mode indicator though it normally also
looks like a snowflake or just a W it
turns on and off
you push a button to make your car move
in second or third gear it prevents your
tires from spinning and slipping when
you're driving on icy roads gas tank
locator
if you've ever borrowed a car from
someone or rented a vehicle you've
probably been in this situation you pull
up to a gas pump only to realize you
have no idea which side the tank is on
next time instead of getting out to
check and will you look at that you
guessed wrong so now you got a circle
around to a different pump you check
this indicator on the dashboard first
it's the little gas pump with an arrow
pointing to the left or right yep it's
telling you which side the tank is on by
the way there are no strict regulations
as to which side the tank should be on
only where it should be in the car one
guess is that manufacturers place it on
different sides of the car to save us
all some time otherwise lines at gas
stations would be way longer drowsiness
detector it does exactly what it says if
the car feels you've been on the road
for too long or you keep slowly drifting
out of your lane then this indicator
will come on it's usually a little icon
of a cup of coffee and it means you need
a break so get off the road
this is a recent development so not many
cars have it yet but in the near future
cars will likely also come with driver
heart rate breathing and even eye
movement monitoring systems to prevent
you from dozing off on the road hey
maybe they shoot you a little shock into
your seat stability control when sensors
decide your vehicle is about to spin out
or isn't turning far enough a little
skidding car icon lights up on the
dashboard stability control as you can
guess from the features name helps you
stay stable on the road when it's wet or
icy don't turn it off unless you're
stuck in deep snow at all other times
it's a real lifesaver
sealing handles everyone knows there are
handles above each of the doors in any
car become in handy when you need
something to hold on to in case the ride
gets a little too crazy your
mother-in-law's driving or the road
starts getting too twisty turny
you might also have seen people hanging
fresh dry cleaning or any clothes on
them but perhaps you didn't know that
the original purpose of these handles
was to help you get in and out of the
car a must-have for bigger vehicles
right conversation mirror in most
minivans and some crossover SUVs you can
pull down a convex mirror from a special
compartment in front of your rear-view
mirror why do you need a second mirror
over your head well it helps you keep an
eye on the kids pets or just passengers
in the back seats without taking your
eyes off the road for a second longer
than needed Hey
quit calling your brother a big fat pig
you want me to come back there ah those
were the days fully customizable icons
there are some indicators you just need
to have on your dashboard like your
speed gas and emergency warnings as for
any extras you find useful and want to
have easy access to many new car models
gives you the luxury of choice of what's
going to be on your vehicles console you
can also make a digital map out of it or
get quick access to your favorite music
and here's a bonus find extra storage
spaces in your car this tip will be more
or less useful depending on the car
let's see if you can find any of these
storage spaces in your ride it could be
a little pop-out compartment near your
rear-view mirror that's just perfect for
your cell phone or shades some cars have
a secret hiding spot behind the climate
control panel you can also try checking
under the passenger seat or behind the
front row if you have a crossover
chances are there are easy to remove
bins so you can drop whatever you want
like your dirty shoes in there take them
out and clean them afterwards hey if you
learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life